README.md, before:

# Simple Struct[ured] format (sstruct/ss)

Definition and Javascript parser implementation of a simple structured file
format.

This format is used to produce files which represent a set of key=value pairs,
where values can be written in a human-readable multiline format (multiline
keys are not supported).

## Design goals

The definition of the format is intended to produce human readable (and
writable) definition of maps/dictionaries/structures.

No need to escape special characters: instead an appropriate separator may be
used for a field; such as that separator does not occur at the beginning of any
line in the field value.

Multiline values can be written verbatim in the file.

## Comparison with JSON

The JSON format is far more flexible: properties may be string, but also
numbers, boolean values, undefined or even inner objects. The simple structured
format only allows string values.

But the JSON footprint is bigger than the one defined by the simple structured
format: in the latter there is no need for additional quotes, colons or commas.
Instead a field line definition, with barely the separator and field name,
just leads to the start of the field value in the next lines.

Also, the multiline capability for the values is simpler and more
human-readable/editable than a multiline text in a JSON object. This is a key
design goal for the simple structured format.

## Example of a .ss file

This is a sample file with three fields:

    _ 1
    One
    _ 2
    T
     W
      O
    _
    ttt Number three
    333
       3
    333
       3
    333
    ttt

Which is equivalent to this JSON:

    {
        "1": "One",
        "2": "T \n W\n  O",
        "Number three": "333\n   3\n333\n   3\n333"
    }

## Features

### Small footprint

The amount of data for separations between fields small: a line like this
starts a new field:

    <separator> <field name>

The `<separator>` word does not contain any spaces, but `<field name>` may.

There may be indentation before `<separator>` and trailing spaces after the
`<field name>`; and even multiple spaces between the `<separator>` and the
beginning of the `<field name>`. All these spaces will be trimmed during
processing.

The `<separator>` must not occur at the beginning of any line of the field
value. The field value includes all lines from the field declaration line until
a new field declaration of a field end line. A field end line is simply a line
with the `<separator>` value.

    <separator>

### Multiple separator words

Since the `<separator>` of field cannot happen at the beginning

Multiple fields values can be set in a single file. Actually

### Meta values

TBD

### Sensible trimming and removal of empty lines

Field names are trimmed in the field defintion lines.

Empty lines in meta data and field values are removed by default, but this is
an option of the parser. When these options are enabled (as per default), the
leading and trailing empty (only spaces) lines of the meta or value data are
removed.

## Format technical data

### Input data is read as UTF-8

A simple structured format parser will try to read an stream of bytes as UTF-8
characters. Non compliant UTF-8 bytes sequences will result in a failure to
parse the file.

### New lines are always '\n'

The multiline values (either actual field values or meta data) read from a
simple structured formatted file will only contain the '\n' line separator
(0x0A byte).

For input data, these will be considered line breaks:

* '\r' then immediately '\n' (Windows standard)
* '\r' (Classic Mac OS)
* '\n' (Unix style)

### Suggested .ss filename extension

The `.ss` filename extension (for _**S**imple **S**truct_, lowercase) is
recommended.

## Command line interface

When installed the `sstruct` command will parse an input `.ss` file given as
paremeter.

    $ sstruct ./samples/README.ss
    {
        "1": "One",
        "2": "T \n W\n  O",
        "Number three": "333\n   3\n333\n   3\n333"
    }
    $

## Javascript implementation

Install the `sstruct` package:

    $ npm install --save sstruct

To parse a file create an input stream, with UTF-8 encoding, and call the `parseStream` method.

    const fs = require('fs')
    const sstruct = require('sstruct')

    var input = fs.createReadStream(args[0], { encoding: 'utf-8' })
    sstruct.parseStream(input)
      .finally(() => { input.close() })
      .then(result => {
        console.log(JSON.stringify(result, null, '    '))
      })
      .catch(error => {
        console.err(error)
      })
 
### API

#### `parseStream(stream, [options])`

Parses the given input stream and returns a `Promise` which will be resolved to the parsed object.

The `options` object can provided to customize parsing with the following properties:

* `meta`, an object where to store the meta data of each field.
* `metaRemoveLeadingAndTrailingEmptyLines`, set to true (default value) to remove leading and trailing empty lines from meta data.
* `valueRemoveLeadingAndTrailingEmptyLines`, set to true (default value) to remove leading and trailing empty lines from value data.

Commit message:

Warning: npm package has not been created yet

README.md, after:

> **WARNING**: as of August 1st 2020, this module has not yet been released as
> an npm package.

# Simple Struct[ured] format (sstruct/ss)

Definition and Javascript parser implementation of a simple structured file
format.

This format is used to produce files which represent a set of key=value pairs,
where values can be written in a human-readable multiline format (multiline
keys are not supported).

## Design goals

The definition of the format is intended to produce human readable (and
writable) definition of maps/dictionaries/structures.

No need to escape special characters: instead an appropriate separator may be
used for a field; such as that separator does not occur at the beginning of any
line in the field value.

Multiline values can be written verbatim in the file.

## Comparison with JSON

The JSON format is far more flexible: properties may be string, but also
numbers, boolean values, undefined or even inner objects. The simple structured
format only allows string values.

But the JSON footprint is bigger than the one defined by the simple structured
format: in the latter there is no need for additional quotes, colons or commas.
Instead a field line definition, with barely the separator and field name,
just leads to the start of the field value in the next lines.

Also, the multiline capability for the values is simpler and more
human-readable/editable than a multiline text in a JSON object. This is a key
design goal for the simple structured format.

## Example of a .ss file

This is a sample file with three fields:

    _ 1
    One
    _ 2
    T
     W
      O
    _
    ttt Number three
    333
       3
    333
       3
    333
    ttt

Which is equivalent to this JSON:

    {
        "1": "One",
        "2": "T \n W\n  O",
        "Number three": "333\n   3\n333\n   3\n333"
    }

## Features

### Small footprint

The amount of data for separations between fields small: a line like this
starts a new field:

    <separator> <field name>

The `<separator>` word does not contain any spaces, but `<field name>` may.

There may be indentation before `<separator>` and trailing spaces after the
`<field name>`; and even multiple spaces between the `<separator>` and the
beginning of the `<field name>`. All these spaces will be trimmed during
processing.

The `<separator>` must not occur at the beginning of any line of the field
value. The field value includes all lines from the field declaration line until
a new field declaration of a field end line. A field end line is simply a line
with the `<separator>` value.

    <separator>

### Multiple separator words

Since the `<separator>` of field cannot happen at the beginning

Multiple fields values can be set in a single file. Actually

### Meta values

TBD

### Sensible trimming and removal of empty lines

Field names are trimmed in the field defintion lines.

Empty lines in meta data and field values are removed by default, but this is
an option of the parser. When these options are enabled (as per default), the
leading and trailing empty (only spaces) lines of the meta or value data are
removed.

## Format technical data

### Input data is read as UTF-8

A simple structured format parser will try to read an stream of bytes as UTF-8
characters. Non compliant UTF-8 bytes sequences will result in a failure to
parse the file.

### New lines are always '\n'

The multiline values (either actual field values or meta data) read from a
simple structured formatted file will only contain the '\n' line separator
(0x0A byte).

For input data, these will be considered line breaks:

* '\r' then immediately '\n' (Windows standard)
* '\r' (Classic Mac OS)
* '\n' (Unix style)

### Suggested .ss filename extension

The `.ss` filename extension (for _**S**imple **S**truct_, lowercase) is
recommended.

## Command line interface

When installed the `sstruct` command will parse an input `.ss` file given as
paremeter.

    $ sstruct ./samples/README.ss
    {
        "1": "One",
        "2": "T \n W\n  O",
        "Number three": "333\n   3\n333\n   3\n333"
    }
    $

## Javascript implementation

Install the `sstruct` package:

    $ npm install --save sstruct

To parse a file create an input stream, with UTF-8 encoding, and call the `parseStream` method.

    const fs = require('fs')
    const sstruct = require('sstruct')

    var input = fs.createReadStream(args[0], { encoding: 'utf-8' })
    sstruct.parseStream(input)
      .finally(() => { input.close() })
      .then(result => {
        console.log(JSON.stringify(result, null, '    '))
      })
      .catch(error => {
        console.err(error)
      })
 
### API

#### `parseStream(stream, [options])`

Parses the given input stream and returns a `Promise` which will be resolved to the parsed object.

The `options` object can provided to customize parsing with the following properties:

* `meta`, an object where to store the meta data of each field.
* `metaRemoveLeadingAndTrailingEmptyLines`, set to true (default value) to remove leading and trailing empty lines from meta data.
* `valueRemoveLeadingAndTrailingEmptyLines`, set to true (default value) to remove leading and trailing empty lines from value data.
